our team work rules
1.Treat everyone with respect
2.2. Communicate openly
Communicating openly means that team members and team leaders communicate freely concerning work. Having a ground rule about communication can help team members recognize the importance of speaking honestly and directly.

Communication is an important part of any team, allowing members to express concerns, results, updates and questions freely among the group and helping team leaders express team goals and expectations more transparently.

3. Give constructive feedback
Constructive feedback is actionable, objective feedback that employees can use to improve their work quality. Encouraging employees to give constructive feedback before teamwork begins may help teams use objective responses when reacting to pitches, suggestions and assigned workloads.

Because constructive feedback aims for work improvement, including this rule may help promote an amicable relationship between both team leaders and employees.

Related: 8 Team Management Skills Every Leader Should Know
4. Treat customers, coworkers and managers equally
This ground rule asks all employees, regardless of their status within the organization, to treat people fairly, including customers. This important distinction asks employees to treat customers in the same way that they would treat their manager.

Creating this ground rule may help promote equal treatment in the workplace, increase customer satisfaction and reduce employee conflict.

5. Celebrate each other's accomplishments
Encouraging employees to celebrate each other's accomplishments not only promotes an amicable workplace but may help employees better understand one another through conversation. Workplace rituals may also become more common and appropriate, such as break room events, after-work outings and celebratory announcements.

Including this ground rule in your list may help promote a more satisfying workplace where all team members acknowledge work efforts.

Related: 22 Ways To Celebrate Wins at Work
6. Address conflict as soon as possible
If management encourages employees to address conflict as soon as possible, it may encourage a more communicative workplace standard. Implementing this rule before the team begins work together may help resolve conflicts more effectively in the future.

Related: Resolving Employee Conflict: 5 Steps To Take (Plus Tips)
7. Be time efficient
The practice of time efficiency is when employees make the best use of their time at work through appropriate scheduling, prioritization and organization. Promoting time efficiency as a ground rule not only encourages project and goal progress but sets expectations for employees from the onset of the team's creation.

Having time efficiency become a team-wide priority may help meetings become more organized and may promote more streamlined communication between employees.

8. Acknowledge everyone's work
This rule states everyone can appreciate each other's work, regardless of position. This means during meetings or critiques, employees may address team members' work with politeness and honesty.

Encouraging this ground rule in the workplace can help improve employee relationships, especially those between employees and team leaders. Additionally, if team leaders respect employees' work, this rule may improve overall employee happiness.

Related: 120 Coworker Appreciation Messages
9. Complete tasks assigned to you
Committing to a task means an employee has stated, in a meeting or otherwise, that they can complete an assignment fully. This task could be a portion of a project, an assignment due by the next day or another important team objective.

Using a team rule like this encourages employee accountability and may cause employees to further evaluate their schedules before accepting responsibilities. Since managers expect employees to complete all assigned tasks, accountability-related rules may also help improve employee motivation.

Related: 6 Steps to Estimate Time for Tasks More Accurately
10. Meet deadlines
Deadlines are important in a team setting, especially concerning highly collaborative efforts like team projects. Highlighting the importance of due dates can help clarify expectations for employees quickly and encourage them to prioritize effective scheduling and time management.

Related: 18 Tips for Handling and Avoiding Deadline Stress at Work
Get interview-ready with tips from Indeed
Prepare for interviews with practice questions and tips
Additional ground rule examples for teams
When creating ground rules for your team, here are some other examples you can use as inspiration for your own:

Arrive on time for meetings or inform the team leader if you're going to be late or absent.
During meetings, only one person may speak at a time.
If presenting a problem, try to present a viable solution.
Team members can inform team leaders if work will be late or early.
Try to keep meeting comments concise.
Express disagreements professionally and tactfully.
After work hours, try to keep emails or calls concerning work matters brief.
